.TH "boot-block" 1 "February 15, 2012" "version 0.99.19" "COBALT COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
boot-block \- Prompt Cobalt to execute commands on a BlueGene compute block on the user's behalf
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B boot-block
[ --block
.I block-name
] [ --jobid
.I jobid
] [--free] [--reboot]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B boot-block
is a command that prompts Cobalt's system component to boot, free, or reboot a
a block on behalf of a user.  This can boot, free or reboot a block.  The command will complete after
the requested operation has completed.  To execute commands on a block, the user issuing the command
must be the user running the job, and must have that block, or a block with a superset of the resources
allocated to them through Cobalt.  Once the Cobalt resource allocation ends, all blocks booted by this
command on the allocated block will be freed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-block block-name
Boot the specified block. If the block is already booted, this will not cause
the block to free.  If this is not specified, the COBALT_PARTNAME
enviornment variable is checked and used as the block to boot.
.TP
.B \-\-jobid jobid
Boot a block for the specified jobid.  The executing user must be the owner of the
resource allocation in Cobalt, and the jobid must be running.  The environment variable
COBALT_JOBID is used if this option is not provided.
.TP
.B \-\-free
Free the specified block, and allow it's resources to be rebooted, or be rebooted as a part
of another block.  All runjobs on the target resource must be terminated for a block free
to complete. This must not be used in conjunction with the
.BR \-\-reboot
flag.
.TP
.B \-\-reboot
Reboot the specified block.  This executes a free followed by a boot.  The block will be
ready to run jobs on completion.  Like the
.BR \-\-free
option the free stage will only
complete if all running jobs on the target block have been terminated.  This may not be used
with the
.BR \-\-free
option.

Return only blocks of the specified nodecount
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR qsub(1),
.BR get-bootable-blocks(1)
