.TH "cobalt.conf" 5
.SH "NAME"
cobalt.conf - configuration parameters for cobalt components
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.I /etc/cobalt.conf
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The Cobalt configuration file is an "ini-style" configuration file. This
configuration file has sections for all Cobalt components and clients
in a given instance.  The general format of a section is:
.PP
[section]
. key1=val1
. key2=val2
.PP
Values that are lists are ":"-delimited.  In the event that a key is defined
multiple times in a section, the value of the last key in the section will be
the value used.  Comments may be made in a file by beginning a like with a '#'.
Comments must not be inline with key-value pairs.  The sections that follow
describe the various sections and their options.

If a configuration value definition is mandatory, that will be noted.
.PP
.SS General Sections
.SS "[components]"
.TP
.B service-location
The url:port of the service-locator component (slp).  The default port is 8256.
This must be specified for a given Cobalt instance
.TP
.B python
The path to the python interpreter to use.  If omitted, the default is
.I /usr/bin/python

.SS "[communication]"
SSL configuration for Cobalt. These must be specified per-install
.TP
.B key
Key to use for SSL communication. May be generated via
.BR openssl (1)
.TP
.B cert
This is a locally stored certification for authenticating the key.
.TP
.B ca
Certification authority for the
.SB cert
entry.  This is typically the same as
.SB cert.
.TP
.B password
Required to be set in configuration file.  This is a shared secret for all
Cobalt daemons and clients to use, and is the password required for Cobalt's
internal
.SM XMLRPC
communication.
.PP
.SS "[statefiles]"
Options for Cobalt's statefile persistence.
.TP
.B location
Path to where the statefiles are stored.
.PP
.SS "[system]"
Common system configuration settings.  These apply to all types of systems.
.TP
.B size
Maximum size of a given system in nodes.
.PP
.SS "[forker]"
Common option for Cobalt forker components.
.TP
.B ignore_setgroup_errors
Default false.  If set to true, then setuid/setgid failures will not kill jobs.
Necessary for running local or subinstances of Cobalt, as well as running
any non-root simulation mode.  If this is set and the forker components are not
running as root, this will cause any job ran to be run as the user to run as the
user that the forker component is running as.
.TP
.B save_me_interval
The minimum interval that Cobalt will wait between saving statefiles for this
component, in seconds. By default the interval is 10.0 seconds.  Under periods
of high load on the component, the interval between statefiles may be longer.
.SS "[logger]"
This section handles cobalt component logging and default levels.
Valid logging levels in this section are
.SM DEBUG,
.SM INFO,
.SM NOTICE,
.SM WARNING,
.SM ERROR
and
.SM CRITICAL
.TP
.B to_syslog
If true, send logging data to the syslog daemon.
.TP
.B syslog_level
Only send messages to syslog at this level or higher.  The default level is INFO
.TP
.B syslog_location
Location of logfile
.TP
.B syslog_facility
Logger facility to send logs to.  The default is local0
.TP
.B to_console
Send logging data to console or stdout/stderr as appropriate.
This defaults to true.
.TP
.B console_level
Only send messages to the console at this level or higher.
The default level is INFO
.SS "[bgsched]"
.TP
.B default_reservation_policy
If set, this is the score accrual policy that will be used on reservation
queues.  The default policy is "default" (fifo).
.TP
.B db_flush_interval
The minimum frequency with which messages are sent to the database component.
.B use_db_logging
must be set to true, and the default interval is 10 seconds.
.B log_dir
The directory to place reservation accounting logs.
.TP
.B overflow_file
This is a file location to use for holding database messages should
.B use_db_logging
be set to true, but the CobaltDB writer component is unavailable for an
extended period of time.  If this file is present, then on cdbwriter startup,
messages from this file will be pushed to the component and added to the
database, followed by in-memory pending messages.
.TP
.B max_queued_messages
This is the number of messages to keep in memory before flushing to the
.SB overflow_file.
If set to -1, the component will never flush to the overflow file.  If this
is not set, then the overflow file will not be used.
.TP
.B save_me_interval
The minimum interval that Cobalt will wait between saving statefiles for this
component, in seconds. By default the interval is 10.0 seconds.  Under periods
of high load on the component, the interval between statefiles may be longer.
.TP
.B schedule_jobs_interval
This is the minimum interval between iterations of the scheduling loop. The
default time is 10 seconds.
.TP
.B utility_file
Location of file for site-defined utility functions.
.TP
.B use_db_logging
If true, send messages to CobaltDB, or cache the messages that would be sent
if the CobaltDB writer is currently unavailable for later writing.  The default
is false

.SS "[cqm]"
These are options for the queue-manager component, cqm. Cqm handles queueing
and overall job tracking operations.
.TP
.B filters
A colon-delimited list of paths to scripts to run.  These are run by the
clients that work with
.BR cqm(8),
specifically,
.BR qsub(1),
.BR qalter(1),
and
.BR qmove(1).
These are invoked from the clients and these scripts must run return an exit
status of 0 prior to the job, or job modification being passed into cqm.
These are intended as site-specific validation scripts.  Scripts recieve
job parameters as key=value pairs as arguments, and any key=value pairs written
to stdout will modify job parameters accordingly, for instance a non-default
initial score of 500 may be written to stdout as score=500.  If a job would
fail to pass the filter entirely, then it should return a nonzero exit status.
A note as to which filter failed should be presented to the user.  It should be
noted that
.BR cqadm(1)
as an admin-level command does not run these filters.  Since the filters are
invoked as a part of client invocation, any change to this parameter to a
running Cobalt instance will have an immediate effect without signaling
or restart.
.TP
.B job_prescripts
A colon-delimited list of scripts to run when the job is scheduled, but prior
to job invocation.  These are run once per job, whether or not it is preempted.
Nonzero exit statuses in these scripts are fatal to a job starting up.
.TP
.B job_postscripts
A colon-delimited list of scripts to run after the job has ended. These are
run once per job, whether or not it is preempted. Nonzero exit statuses in
these scripts have no effect on a job.
.TP
.B resource_prescripts
A colon-delimited list of scripts to run when the job is scheduled, but prior
to job invocation.  These are run once per task, prior to resuming from
preemption. Nonzero exit statuses in these scripts are fatal to a job
starting up.
.TP
.B resource_postscripts
A colon-delimited list of scripts to run after the job has ended. These are
run after each preemption step. Nonzero exit statuses at the end of a job in
these scripts have no effect on a job.
.TP
.B dep_frac
The floating-point fraction of a job's score that a dependent job inherits.
This sets a default value and may be overridden on a per-job basis by the
.BR schedctl(1)
command.  The default is 0.5.
.TP
.B scale_dep_frac
If set to true, the dependency fraction inherited by jobs will be modified by
the ratio of the size of the resources the dependent job to the job it is
inheriting score from.  This only applies to dependent jobs that are smaller
than the job they are inheriting from.  For instance, a 4 node job depending
on an 8 node job would inherit half the score fraction than an 8 node job
that depended on an 8-node job.
.TP
.B mailserver
The address of the mailserver to use for sending admin emails and requested
user emails for startup and termination notification.
.TP
.B force_kill_delay
The length of time, in seconds, to wait between sending a SIGTERM and a SIGKILL
to a job.  The default is 300 seconds.
.TP
.B log_dir
The directory to place job accounting logs.
.TP
.B overflow_file
This is a file location to use for holding database messages should
.B use_db_logging
be set to true, but the CobaltDB writer component is unavailable for an
extended period of time.  If this file is present, then on cdbwriter startup,
messages from this file will be pushed to the component and added to the
database, followed by in-memory pending messages.
.TP
.B max_queued_messages
This is the number of messages to keep in memory before flushing to the
.SB overflow_file.
If set to -1, the component will never flush to the overflow file.  If this
is not set, then the overflow file will not be used.
.TP
.B save_me_interval
The minimum interval that Cobalt will wait between saving statefiles for this
component, in seconds. By default the interval is 10.0 seconds.  Under periods
of high load on the component, the interval between statefiles may be longer.
.TP
.B utility_file
Location of file for site-defined utility functions.
.TP
.B use_db_logging
If true, send messages to CobaltDB, or cache the messages that would be sent
if the CobaltDB writer is currently unavailable for later writing.  The default
is false
.TP
.B poll_process_groups_interval
The interval in seconds between queries to the system component for process
group status.
.TP
.B use_db_jobid_generator
If true, use CobaltDB to generate a unique jobid.  This may be used to ensure
unique jobids across multiple Cobalt instances on related resources.
Default false.
.TP
.B progress_interval
The minimum time in seconds between job statemachine steps.  Default 10 seconds.
.TP
.B max_walltime
If set, defines a general maximum requested walltime for all queues.  May be
overriden by setting the MaxWalltime property on a given queue.  If this is not
set, then there is no default limit on the length of time a user job
may request, unless explicitly set as a part of a given queue.
.TP
.B compute_utility_interval
The minimum time in seconds to wait between score calculation iterations.
The default is 10 seconds.
.TP
.B cqstat_header
A colon-delimited list of display headers to use in
.BR qstat (1)'s
default display.
A default set of headers will be used if this is not set.
.TP
.B cqstat_header_full
A colon-delimited list of display headers to use with
.BR qstat (1)'s
-f flag.  If not set, a default set of display headers are used.  This does
not change the -f -l combination for display.

.SS "[cdbwriter]"
.TP
.B log_dir
The directory to place cdbwriter message overflow files.
.TP
.B user
The user to connect to DB2.  It is recommended to use a user identity that
only has access to the Cobalt database.  This user requires read, write,
and update permissions on the Cobalt database.
.TP
.B pwd
This is the password that the user will use to connect to the Cobalt database.
.TP
.B database
The name of the database in DB2 to connect to that contains the Cobalt database.
.TP
.B schema
The name of the DB2 schema where the Cobalt database resides.  Multiple schemas
may exist in the same database, which is useful for handling multiple, related,
Cobalt instances.
.TP
.B save_me_interval
The minimum interval that Cobalt will wait between saving statefiles for this
component, in seconds. By default the interval is 10.0 seconds.  Under periods
of high load on the component, the interval between statefiles may be longer.

.SS Cluster System Sections
.SS "[cluster_system]"
.TP
.B simulation_mode
Set the cluster_system component to run in a simulation mode.  In this mode,
The cluster system will not actually run jobs on target nodes in its
configuration, but it will instead run the
.SB simulation_executable
which will provide statistics on what would have ran.  Otherwise the system
component will track and allocate resources as though it was actually running
on a multi-node cluster, with a confguration sprcified in the
.SB hostfile
entry if true.  This defaults to false.
.TP
.B simulation_executable
Instead of running pre and postscripts, run the specified executable.  This
must be specified if running in simulation_mode.  Output from this script is
logged to the cluster_system component's logs.
.TP
.B run_remote
If set to false, do not attempt to run pre/postscripts on remote resources.
The default is true.
.TP
.B hostfile
This is a list of hostnames for nodes that the cluster system component can
schedule.  Nodes may be added or removed, and the list of available nodes
is updated at restart.
.TP
.B epilogue
This is a colon-delimited set of scripts to run on a per-node basis on task
termination on a resource. If any script returns a non-zero exit status,
the node will be marked down, and no new jobs will be scheduled on that resource.
.TP
.B epilogue_timeout
The amount of time in seconds to wait for each script to complete.  If the script has
not completed and exited with a status of 0 before this timeout is reached, that node
will be marked down.

.TP
.B prologue
Not currently used.  Per-node scripts are currently launched as a part of the
.BR cqm (8)
resource_prologue
.TP
.B prologue_timeout
This is not currently used within the cluster system component
.TP
.B allocation_timeout
This is the time in seconds to wait when resources are allocated, but have not
had a job started on them.  This usually occurs when a user deletes a job while
it is starting up.  After this timeout has elapsed the resources will be
returned to the pool of available nodes, and a new job may be scheduled on the
resources.  The default timeout is 300 seconds.
.TP
.B drain_mode
This sets the backfill mode to use and may be one of
.IR backfill,
.IR drain_only,
or
.IR first_fit.
The
.I first_fit
mode will run the highest scored job that can immediately run on resources
available.  The
.I drain_only
mode will run the highest scored job, if sufficient resources are available or
it will start draining nodes and then run the job once sufficient resources are
available.  The
.I backfill
mode will run and drain resources as the
.I drain_only
mode, but will also attempt to run jobs on the empty, but draining nodes in a
score-order first-fit manner.  It is recommended that backfill be used if
draining is permitted for improved utilization of cluster resources.
.TP
.B minimum_backfill_window
This is the minimum amount of backfill time to set for a set of resources that
being cleaned by post-job epilogue scripts.  The default is 300 seconds.


.SS BlueGene/P Sections
.SS "[bgpm]"
.TP
.B mmcs_server_ip
The IP address of the BlueGene mmcs_server.
.TP
.B mpirun
The location of the BlueGene mpirun binary.  This is typically
.I /bgsys/drivers/ppcfloor/bin/mpirun

.SS "[bgsystem]"

.TP
.B kernel
If true, allow the use of alternative kernels
.TP
.B bootprofiles
This is a path to the directory that holds the alternate kernel subdirectories.
If alternate kernel support is being used, then this must be set.
.TP partitionboot
This is the location of where symlinks to the current profiles of partitions
should be made.  Cobalt will autogenerate these symlinks as a part of the boot
process on an as-needed basis.
.TP
.B bgtype
The type of BlueGene being run on.  For BlueGene/Q this should be set to 'bgp'.


.SS BlueGene/Q Sections
.SS "[bgpm]"
.TP
.B runjob
The location of the BlueGene runjob binary.  This is typically
.I /bgsys/drivers/ppcfloor/bin/runjob

.SS "[bgsystem]"
.TP
.B allow_alternate_kernels
If set to true, allow alternate kernels to be run by users using the
.I --kernel
or
.I --io_kernel
flags to
.BR qsub (1).
This defaults to false.
.TP
.B bootprofiles
This is a path to the directory that holds the alternate kernel subdirectories.
If alternate kernel support is being used, then this must be set.
.TP partitionboot
This is the location of where symlinks to the current profiles of partitions
should be made.  Cobalt will autogenerate these symlinks as a part of the boot
process on an as-needed basis.
.TP
.B default_kernel
The default compute-node kernel image to use.  This name should be a directory
found at the path indicated by
.SB .
This value is set to 'default' by default.
.TP
.B default_kernel_options
A list of options to pass to the default kernel image.
.TP
.B ion_default_kernel
The default IO-node kernel image to use.  This name should be a directory
found at the path indicated by
.B ion_default_kernel_options
A list of options to pass to the default kernel image.
.SB .
This value is set to 'default' by default.
.TP
.B subblock_prefix
This is a location prefix to attach to subblock names.  Usually this is the
resource's prefix for the Cobalt instance. The default for subblock use is
"COBALT".
.TP
.B subblock_config
Sets a configuration for subblock use.  This is a key-value list of the form:
.RS
.RS

"[blockname1:min_size1],[blockname2:min_size2],..."

.RE
Blocks must be specified in the BlueGene control system.  Pseudoblocks will
be generated down to the specified minimum size.  Valid minimum sizes are
64, 32, 16, 8, 4, 2, 1.  Subblock geometries are per-IBM's recommendations
in
.BR runjob (1)
where appropriate.  If
.SB subblock_config
is specified then
.SB subblock_prefix
may also be specified.
.RE
.TP
.B ignore_subblock_sizes
A colon-delimited list of sizes to skip when generating pseudoblocks for
automatic subblock use.
.TP
.B terminal_boot_timeout
Sets an automatic timeout in seconds for block boots initiated by Cobalt's
.BR boot_block (1)
command.  The default is 300 seconds.
.TP
.B bgtype
The type of BlueGene being run on.  For BlueGene/Q this should be set to 'bgq'.



.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.B COBALT_CONFIG_FILES
If set, Cobalt will use the configuration pointed to by this path.

.SH "FILES"

.TP
.I /etc/cobalt.conf
This is the default location for the configuration file used by all Cobalt
daemons and clients.  Due to the potential for abuse of the
.SM XMLRPC
interfaces, access to this file should be carefully controlled.  This file
does not to be writable under normal conditions, and only must be readable
by the user used by Cobalt's setgid wrappers.  By default, this is the
.SM cobalt
user.



.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR slp (8),
.BR bgpm (8),
.BR bgsched (8),
.BR cqm (8)
