.TH "cqm" 8
.SH NAME
cqm \- Cobalt Queue Manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cqm 
.I [-d] [--config-files <configfile1:configfile2>] [-D=<pidfile>]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.B cqm 
Cobalt Queue Manager
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-d
Turn on communication debugging.
.TP
.B \-\-config-files <configfile1:configfile2>
Specify path to cobalt.conf.
.TP
.B \-D=<pidfile>
Daemonize, and write pid to pidfile.
.SH "CONFIGURATION FILE PARAMETERS"
.TP
.B bgkernel=(true|false)
Perform per-job kernel updates for Blue Gene/L jobs.
.TP
.B partitionboot=path
Set the path to the directory location of partition boot links
.TP
.B bootprofiles=path
Set the path to the directory containing BG/L kernel profiles
.TP
.B log_dir=path
Set the path to the directory for cqm's accounting log files.
.TP
.B mailserver=server
Set the mailserver used for sending notifications at the beginning and end of job execution.
.TP
.B filters=pathtoscript
Set submission filter scripts to be run against a job submitted with cqsub. Multiple filters should be separated by colons. All the job attributes are passed to each filter script in the form 'attr1=value attr2=value'. If the script(s) returns 0, the job will successfully be submitted. Otherwise, the job is rejected. STDERR from the script(s) will be echo'ed to the terminal, and STDOUT from the script will be used to modify the job attributes before submission to cqm (attribute=value on separate lines.)
.TP
.B postscript=pathtoscript
Set post-job scripts to be run upon completion of a job. If the script(s) does not return 0, the STDERR from the script(s) will be logged via syslog. 
.TP
.B cqstat_header=attr fields
Set custom display header for cqstat, using colon-separated job attributes (pick from the cqstat -lf listing)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cqsub(1),
.BR cqstat(1),
.BR cqadm(8)
