.TH "cqsub" 1
.SH "NAME"
cqsub \- submit jobs to the queue manager for execution
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B cqsub 
.I [-d] [-q queue] [-p project] [-t time] [-n number of nodes] [-m mode] [-c process count] <executable> <options>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.B cqsub
submits a job to the queue manager for execution. 
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-d
Turn on communication debugging.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print out version string
.TP
.B \-I
Run an interactive command. During job execution, the current tty will
be connected with the running job. (Not available on Blue Gene systems.)
.TP
.B \-k "kernel profile"
Run the job with the specified kernel profile.
.TP 
.B \-q "queue"
Submit the job to the specified queue.
.TP
.B \-e "environmentvar=value:var=value2"
Set environment variables for the job.
.TP
.B \-m "mode"
Either co (for coprocessor mode) or vn (for virtual node mode)
.TP
.B \-n "node count"
Specifies the node count for a job
.TP
.B \-c "process count"
Specify the number of processes to start
.TP
.B \-p "project"
Associate the job with the allocation for project project. This is
used to properly account for machine usage. 
.TP
.B \-q "queue"
Submit the job to specified queue.
.TP
.B \-t "wall clock time" 
Specify the runtime for a job. The time specified is the full amount in minutes
allotted to the job for execution. If the job runs over this limit, it
will be killed. If colon-delimited time is specified, the format is HH:MM:SS. 
.TP
.B \-C "working directory"
Use specified working directory for job.
.TP 
.B \-O "output prefix"
Use specified prefix for .output and .error files.
.TP
.B \-N "email address"
Send an email notification at the start and stop of the job to the specified email address.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cqstat(1),
.BR cqdel(1),
.BR cqm(1)
.SH "BUGS"
