.TH "cweb" 8
.SH NAME
cweb \- Cobalt realtime job data agent
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cweb
[\fB\-id\fR]
[\fB\-p\fR \fIPORT\fR]
[\fB\-\-job\-fields\fR \fIfield1:field2:...:fieldN\fR]
[\fB\-\-reservation\-fields\fR \fIfield1:field2:...:fieldN\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cweb
Queries the cobalt queue-manager, scheduler, and active system component for
job, reservation, and node/partition data for a running Cobalt instance.  This
data is presented as a JSON-encoded string.  If run interactively, \fBcweb\fR
will query once, write results to \fIstdout\fR and exit.  If run as a daemon,
then this data will be presented via a web-interface at the specified port to a
HTTP get request.  Data will be returned once per request.  By default, cweb
will run a webserver, and will direct all status and error messages to
stdout/stderr.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Run as a daemon.  This will expect a pidfile to be set and will be expected to
run as a service.
.TP
.B \-g \-\-debug
Run a debugging ping-pong server, as opposed to serving JSON data.
.TP
.B \-h
Print help and exit.
.TP
.B \-i \-\-immediage
Run interacively.  Fetch current job/reservation/resource status, print JSON and
exit.
.TP
.B \-p PORT \-\-port PORT
Port to respond to.  This is ignored with the \fI\-i\fR flag.
.TP
.B \-\-job\-fields field1:field2:...:fieldN
Fetch additional data fields for job data.  See
.BR cqm(8)
for additional fields. Additional fields are ':'-delimited
.TP
.B \-\-reservation\-fields field1:field2:...:fieldN
Fetch additional data fields for job data.  See
.BR bgsched (8)
for additional fields. Additional fields are ':'-delimited

.SH NOTES

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cqm (8)
.BR bgsched (8)
.BR bgqsystem (8)
.BR alpssystem (8)
.BR cluster_system (8)
