.TH "partadm" 8 "August 2013" "Cobalt"
.SH "NAME"
partadm 
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B partadm [-a|-d] part1 part2
.TP
.B partadm -l
.TP
.B partadm [--activate|--deactivate] part1 part2
.TP
.B partadm [--enable|--disable] part1 part2
.TP
.B partadm --queue=queue1:queue2 [--rmq | --appq] part1 part2
.TP
.B partadm --fail part1 part2
.TP
.B partadm --unfail part1 part2
.TP
.B partadm --savestate=<full path to file>
.TP
.B partadm --xml
.TP
.B partadm --boot-stop
.TP
.B partadm --boot-enable
.TP
.B partadm --boot-status
.TP
.B partadm --version
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
partition administration tool

.SH "OPTIONS"
The following options are available on all BlueGene platforms.
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Turn on communication debugging
.TP
.B \-h \-\-help
Displays the usage and a brief descriptions of the options
.TP
.B \-\-version
Displays client revision and Cobalt version

.TP
.B \-a
Add new partitions into the scheduler
.TP
.B \-d 
Delete partitions from the scheduler
.TP
.B \-l
List partitions and their properties
.TP
.B \-\-activate
Set the partition as functional
.TP
.B \-\-deactivate
Se the partition as non-functional. (Jobs will not be run on
non-functional partitions, or any overlapping partitions)
.TP
.B \-\-enable
Allow partition(s) to have jobs scheduled on them
.TP
.B \-\-disable
Do not run jobs on this partition(s). (Jobs can run on larger or
smaller overlapping partitions)
.TP
.B \-\-queue
Set the queue[s] that point to particular partitions. Use option --rmq to remove queue(s) or --appq to append queue(s)
.TP
.B \-\-rmq
Remove queues specified in \-\-queue from specified partitions.
.TP
.B \-\-appq
Append queues specified in \-\-queue to the specified partitions.
.TP
.B \-\-fail
Manually fail a partition in the same way as a partition that has failed diagnostics.
.TP
.B \-\-unfail
Manually clear the failed state from a partition that has failed diagnostics (or
has been marked failed by the --fail command).
.TP
.B \-\-savestate
Force the system component to write the statefile to the specified file (full path must be supplied)
.TP
.B \-\-xml
This option is only available when running bgsystem (i.e. not the simulator).
It will produce an XML file on standard out which describes the partitions being
managed by the running cobalt.  This file is suitable for use with the simulator. 
.TP
.B \-\-dump
Dump partition state
.TP
.B \-r \-\-recursive
Activate recursive mode. All child partitions of all specified
partitions will be modified (for activate/deactivate/enable/disable/queue/deps/free)
.TP
.B \-b \-\-blockinfo
Print the detailed state and information for all requested blocks.  On BlueGene/Q platforms, this will also accept IO block names.  When submitting names for multiple blocks, compute block names may be mixed with IO block names.
.TP
.B \-c \-\-clean_block
Force the block to cleanup and clear all internal reservations on that resource.
.SH "BLUE GENE/Q OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-\-boot-stop
Diable booting of any job.
.TP
.B \-\-boot-start
Enable booting of any job.
.TP
.B \-\-boot-status
Show whether or not booting is enabled.
.TP
.B \-i \-\-list_io
List information on IO blocks.  This may be combined with the
.B \-l
flag.
.TP
.B \-\-add_io_block
Add a list of IO blocks to be tracked by the scheduler.
.TP
.B \-\-del_io_block
Remove a list of IO blocks from tracking by the scheduler.
.TP
.B \-\-boot_io_block
Manually boot listed IO blocks.  A target IO block must be managed by Cobalt for
this command to have an effect on a target block.
.TP
.B \-\-free_io_block
Manually free listed IO blocks.  A target IO block must be managed by Cobalt for
this command to have an effect on a target block.
.TP
.B \-\-set_io_autoboot
Enable the listed IO blocks to be automatically booted/rebooted by Cobalt
.TP
.B \-\-unset_io_autoboot
Remove the auto reboot flag from the listed IO blocks.
.TP
.B \-\-io_autoboot_start
Set the flag to allow Cobalt to automatically boot IO blocks marked for
automatic control.
.TP
.B \-\-io_autoboot_stop
Stop Cobalt from automatically booting IO blocks marked for automatic control.
.TP
.B \-\-io_autoboot_status
Query whether or not Cobalt is set to automatically boot IO blocks.
.TP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR partlist (1)
.SH "BUGS"
