.TH "setres" 8
.SH "NAME"
setres \- Create or modify a cobalt scheduler reservation
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.BR setres
\fB-n\ \fIname\fR\ [\fB-m\fR]\ [\fB-A\ \fIproject\fR]\ [\fB-c\fR]
[\fB--allow_passthrough\fR] [\fB--block_passthrough\fR]\ [\fB-D\fR]
[\fB-d \ \fIduration\fR]\ [\fB--debug\fR] [\fB-p \ \fIlocation\fR]
[\fB-q\ \fIqueue\fR]\ [\fB-s\ \fIstarttime\fR] [\fB-u\ \fIuser-list\fR]
[\fIreservation locations\fR]
.TP
.B setres
[\fB--res_id\ \fIid\fR]\ [\fB--cycle_id\ \fIid\fR]\ [\fB--force\fR]
.TP
.BR setres\ -h
.TP
.BR setres\ --version

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Creates or modifies a scheduler reservation.  Reservation and cycle ids may also
be reset.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-A \-\-project \fIproject
Set project name to associate with the reservation.
.TP
.B \-\-allow_passthrough
Allow pass through connection on systems with interconnects that allow
passthrough communication.
.TP
.B \-\-block_passthrough
Block pass through connections on systems with interconnects that allow
passthrough communication.
.TP
.B \-c \-\-cycletime \fItime
Set the cycle time (in minutes or DD:HH:MM:SS).  This is the amount of
time from reservation start until it is automatically renewed.  This
can be used to create repeating reservations.
.TP
.B \-d \-\-duration \fIduration
Set duration (in minutes or HH:MM:SS)
.TP
.B \-D \-\-defer
Defer current (or next) iteration of recurring reservation. This must be used
with the
.B -m
flag.
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Turn on communication debugging.
.TP
.B \-h \-\-help
Displays the usage and a brief descriptions of the options
.TP
.B \-m \-\-modify
Modify an existing reservation. The target reservation specified with
.BR -n .
.TP
.B \-n \-\-name
Set reservation name.  Names must be unique for all pending and active
reservations on a system.
.TP
.B \-p \-\-partition \fIlocation
Set the location to use for a reservation.  This may be used instead of positional arguments
for locations.  All locations in a reservation must exist and must
be managed by the system component at the time the reservation is set and active.
.TP
.B \-q \-\-queue \fIqueue
Set the queue name. Optional. Queues may already exist and have jobs in them.
Jobs currently running in a target queue will not be affected by applying a
reservation to the queue.  Jobs that are queued in the target queue will not
start until the reservation becomes active.  Jobs in a reservations against an
existing queue will be permitted to run on all nodes in that queue.

If this option isn't specified, a queue "R.name" will be created where name is the
reservation name specified by the
.B -n
argument.
.TP
.B \-s \-\-starttime \fIstarttime
Set start time (supported formats include YYYY-MM-DD-HH:MM or
YYYY_MM_DD-HH:MM). The \fIstarttime\fR may also be "now," which will set the
reservation starttime to the current time and the reservation will immediately
activate for the next scheduling iteration.
.TP
.B \-u \-\-user \fIuser-list
Set user(s) for reservation. Set to "*" for all users. User names may be
provided as a colon-delimited (:) list.  User names must be valid on the node where
.BR setres (8)
is running.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Displays client revision and Cobalt version
.TP
.B \-\-cycle_id \fIid
Set the integer cycle id.  Without \-\-force_id this must be a larger value
than the current maximum cycle id.  This may not be used with any option other than
\-\-force_id
.TP
.B \-\-force_id
Only used with \-\-res_id or \-\-cycle_id options.  Will force the id generator
to start with the specified value.  Improper use of this option may cause
non-unique reservation ids and cycle ids to occur.
.TP
.B \-\-res_id \fIid
Set the integer reservation id.  Without \-\-force this must be a larger value
than the current maximum reservation id. This may not be used with any option other than
\-\-force_id

.SH "NOTES"
At a minimum all reservation creation requires use of the
.B -n, -s
and
.B -d
flags.  Partions and nodes must be specified as positional arguments or via the
.B -p
flag.
.P
On Cray systems nodes are referenced by their integer node id.  Nodes may be
specified as a comma-delimited list.  Ranges of node id's may be compacted with a
hyphen to an inclusive range, i.e. 1-4 will expand to 1,2,3,4.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR showres (1),
.BR releaseres (8)
.SH "BUGS"
