.TH "qalter" 1
.SH "NAME"
qalter \- change properties of jobs already submitted to the queue manager
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B qalter 
.I [<options>] <jobid> [ <jobid> ... ]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
.B qalter
changes properties of jobs already submitted to the queue manager.

Note: Currently no properties may be changed while a job is running.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-d \-\-debug
Turn on communication debugging
.TP
.B \-\-help
Displays the usage and a brief descriptions of the options
.TP
.B \-\-version
Displays client revision and Cobalt version
.TP
.B \-A \-\-project "project"
Associate the job with the allocation for project project. This is
used to properly account for machine usage. 
.TP
.B \-\-attrs <attributes>
Modify attributes for jobs in args. Format (attr1=val1:attr2=val2:...:attrN=valN)'
.TP
.B \-\-dependencies
for jobs in args (jobid1:jobid2:..)
.TP
.B \-\-disable_preboot
If --mode script is specified, this will cause Cobalt to run the job script without
booting the block first.  By default the script is executed after the requested block is booted.
.TP
.B \-\-enable_preboot
If prebooting a block has been disabled, re-enable it.
.TP
.B \-\-defer
Defer jobs in the argument list for the current user.
.TP
.B \-e \-\-error "stderr file path"
Send job stderr to file specified.
.TP
.B \-\-geometry <geometry_spec>
Sets the geometry of the block that the jobs should run on.  This is in
the form of AxBxCxDxE.  This must be the geometry of the compute block.
This may not be a fraction of a block. Geometry may be unset if "None"
is passed as the geometry specification.
.TP
.B \-h \-\-held
hold jobs in args
.TP
.B \-M \-\-notify "email address"
Send an email notification at the start and stop of the job to the
specified email address.
.TP
.B \-\-mode "mode"
Either co (for coprocessor mode) or vn (for virtual node mode) or script (for script jobs)
.TP
.B \-n \-\-nodecount "node count" 
Specifies the node count for a job
.TP
.B \-o \-\-output "stdout file path"
Send job stdout to file specified.
.TP
.B \-\-proccount "process count"
Specify the number of processes to start
.TP
.B \-\-run_users \-\-user_list <user1>:<user2>
Sets a colon-separated list of users for the job being submitted.  All users
in this list will be able to execute cobalt commands to control the job. The 
submitting user is always able to run commands on a submitted job.
.TP
.B \-\-run_project
Appends the list of users in a project to the list of users authorized to run
commands on the submitted job. 
.TP
.B \-t \-\-time "wall clock time" 
Specify the runtime for a job. The time specified is the full amount in minutes
allotted to the job for execution. If the job runs over this limit, it
will be killed. If colon-delimited time is specified, the format is HH:MM:SS.

Also note that relative time is allowed.  A time argument with a '+' at the
beginning will add the argument amount to the current walltime, while an argument
with a '-' at the beginning will subtract the argument amount from the current
walltime.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR qsub (1),
.BR qstat (1)
.SH "BUGS"
